Well now that we
in the last video learned about this template option and that we can mount our instance like this,
well we can continue with that thought.
What if we wanted to create a reusable component
to insert this template in multiple places because maybe it would be something more than hello,
let's say it would be a complex template displaying something which you want to display in several places
on our page.
Now if you wanted to do that, well one thing we could do of course was we could simply say that we don't
want to append the child to get element by ID app3 but instead I'll comment this out here for now and I'll
add the el ref here, again to select let's say everything which has this selector of hello.
So this element of course doesn't exist but I'm trying to replace the template of every hello element
with this template.
So let's insert some hello elements, here is one and then another one
and of course this is no official html element but let's see if this works.
If I hit control enter, it only replaces the first occurrence.
What if we changed this to use the class hello?
If we then say div class, hello like this
and we repeat this,
if I now hit enter, also only one hello
and if I remove both of them as well as this unnecessary div here,
well then there is no hello, of course.
So this does not work with this element, it only takes the first one so I'll revert this but it would
still be nice to have such a reusable component, wouldn't it?
Well we can create such a component and I can create it by simply going up there and registering one
with vue component,
this allows me to create a new component which I can then reuse in all my other vue instances, in all
the templates of these instances.
Vue component takes as a first argument the selector of the component,
let's name it
hello
and the second argument is a javascript object which is similar to the object we passed to a vue
instance but not equal,
for example data is used differently
and I'll come back to that in the component section in this course where we will dive much deeper into
components and learn how we can utilize them much better than by doing so
but these are the first steps with them so I will show you how to use it like this.
So let's have a template
where we now again have this h1 hello element here which I want to reuse
and now I can use this component I created here, I registered it globally by running vue component
so I can now use it everywhere,
for example here in app2 because app3 will get replaced with its own template entirely
so that would not be a good example but in app2, we don't do this so let's enter hello here.
This new element which clearly is the default element but the one we just created and indeed we see hello over
there and if I enter another
hello
in this app2 div,
well then we see two hellos and the third one is from the third instance down here.
So with that, we now get a reusable component with its own template using the same template property as we
do down here
but now utilizing us or giving us the possibility to use that all over the place in our application.
Now that has some limitations and I'll come to these limitations in the next video and especially
in the components section where we dive deeper into that and learn how to really use components and
how we can utilize them better than we're doing here.
But it is important for you to take away,
there is a way to create such reusable parts in your application, to give them their own templates, to
give them their own selector by which you can then enter them. That again of course is no built in
selector, hello doesn't exist, there is no hello element, we just told vuejs to replace every hello
element with this template and how it differs to a normal vue instance where only the first occurrence
is replaced and where we can't use it as a reusable selector. With vue component we can
but again we'll dive deeper into this in the components section. With that I'll get rid of it here
so that we revert to the no component state again and can continue with that.